TCF Canada Exams - Alliance Française de Delhi
Skip to content
Home
Courses
Adult French Classes
French Classes (Non-Beginners)
French Classes (Beginners)
Course Information
Kid & Teen French Classes
Kid & Teen French Classes (Beginners)
Kid & Teen French Classes (Non-Beginners)
Focus French Courses
Private Tuition
Corporate and School French Classes
French Teacher Diploma DU FLE
Exams
Orientation Test
TCF Canada Exams
DELF / DALF Exams
Culture
AFD Cine Club
Past Events
Upcoming Events
Services
Translation and Interpretation
AFD Competition
Alma Café Français
Campus France
Job Opportunities
Venue Rental
Library
About
Who are we?
AFD Board
AFD Staff
AFD Education Team
AFD Membership
Annual Reports & FCRA
Contact
Search
Register
Search for:
Close menu
Home
Courses
Adult French Classes
French Classes (Non-Beginners)
French Classes (Beginners)
Course Information
Kid & Teen French Classes
Kid & Teen French Classes (Beginners)
Kid & Teen French Classes (Non-Beginners)
Focus French Courses
Private Tuition
Corporate and School French Classes
French Teacher Diploma DU FLE
Exams
Orientation Test
TCF Canada Exams
DELF / DALF Exams
Culture
AFD Cine Club
Past Events
Upcoming Events
Services
Translation and Interpretation
AFD Competition
Alma Café Français
Campus France
Job Opportunities
Venue Rental
Library
About
Who are we?
AFD Board
AFD Staff
AFD Education Team
AFD Membership
Annual Reports & FCRA
Contact
Search
Toggle menu
Search for:
TCF Canada – Test de connaissance du français pour le Canada
The
Test de connaissance du français pour le Canada (TCF Canada)
is an official French language proficiency test recognized by
Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC)
for immigration to Canada. The objective of the TCF Canada is to evaluate a candidate’s French language skills across
six proficiency levels
, aligned with the
Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR)
. The TCF is designed for
non-native speakers of French
and is developed and administered by
France Éducation International (FEI)
, under the French Ministry of Education.
Key Information
Exam:
TCF Canada
Purpose:
Immigration to Canada
Validity of results:
2 years
Administering body:
France Éducation International (FEI)
Test format:
Computer-based (digital)
Registration
Registrations are accepted on a
first-come, first-served basis
, subject to seat availability.
A seat is
confirmed only after successful payment
.
Once registered,
no refund requests will be accepted
, except in cases where the exam is cancelled by Alliance Française de Delhi. In such instances, candidates will be offered either an alternative exam date, or a full refund.
Eligibility & Test Conditions
Candidates must be
at least 16 years of age
.
The test may be taken multiple times, with a
minimum interval of 20 days
between two exam sessions.
The exam is conducted
digitally on a computer
.
Exam Structure
The TCF Canada consists of
four compulsory modules
, assessing both oral and written proficiency:
Listening Comprehension:
39 questions — 35 minutes
Reading Comprehension:
39 questions — 60 minutes
Written Expression:
3 tasks — 60 minutes
Oral Expression:
3 tasks — 12 to 15 minutes
Results
An
official certificate of results
indicating scores for each module will be issued
within 2 to 4 weeks
after the test date. Please consider the time period necessary to receive the certificate (about 2 to 4 weeks) if you want to apply for a school or immigration process. You will then receive an email with your test results and official certificate.
TCF Canada Test
Test Date
Wednesday 14th October 2026
Wednesday 28th October 2026
Registration Date
Closed (Fully Booked)
Seats
22
22
Contents
Fees
Listening Comprehension
Rs. 26,000/- (with GST)
Reading Comprehension
Oral Expression
Written Expression
Register for TCF Exam (Closed)
Important Information
Registration for the 14th and 28th October exams begins on 30th September 2026. Online registration starts at 9:30 AM and offline registration at 9:00 AM. We encourage you to register online in order to secure your registration as offline seats are extremely limited.
Seats are limited:
TCF Canada seats are allotted on a first-come, first-served basis. Demand is high, and seats often fill within minutes of registration opening, both online and offline. Offline seats are extremely limited. To secure your seat, we strongly recommend registering online. Create your
registration account
in advance so you can book and pay quickly once slots open.
Waiting list:
If you secure a seat, you will receive a confirmation email. If all seats are full, your registration will be placed on a waiting list. In that case, please contact the Administration/Front Desk, who will help transfer your fee to the same exam date (subject to additional seats becoming available) or to the next available TCF exam date.
Please note that the test will be conducted in two slots which will be allocated randomly and updated to candidates via mail:
Slot 1
Written test: 9:15 – 12:15
Oral test: 13:00 – 15:00
Slot 2
Oral test: 10h30 – 12h30
Written test: 13h00 – 16h00
TCF Latest Updates
Important Update for TCF Canada Candidates – Sept 2026
Important Notice for TCF Canada Candidates – Sept 2026 –...
Read More
September 5, 2026
TCF Canada Exam Schedule – 2026
Alliance Française de Delhi is pleased to announce the TCF...
Read More
December 13, 2025
TCF FAQ
What is TCF?
The Test de Connaissance du Français (TCF), designed by France Education International and accredited by the French Ministry of Education, is a French language proficiency test for non-native speakers of French who wish to evaluate and have their level of proficiency certified for professional, academic or personal reasons.
In general, the TCF grades and ranks candidates at one of the six levels (A1, A2, B1, B2, C1 or C2) on a scale defined by the Council of Europe (Common European Framework of Reference for Languages). TCF grade results are reliable measurements for determining proficiency. Each candidate is awarded a certificate which is valid for two years.
Alliance Française de Delhi conducts
only the TCF Canada examination
, which is required for
immigration to Canada
.
Which TCF /TEF exam should I take?
TCF Canada
: To emigrate to Canada.
TCF TOUT PUBLIC
: To apply for Higher studies in French universities.
TCF QUÉBEC
: To emigrate to Québec.
TCF ANF
: To apply for French nationality.
TEF CANADA
: Required for permanent residency applications to Canada.
TEF QUÉBEC
: Required for permanent residency applications to Québec
Alliance Française de Delhi conducts
only the TCF Canada examination
, which is required for
immigration to Canada
.
Do I need valid passport to register for TCF Canada Exam?
Alert!
To satisfy with the new regulations regarding enrollment for TCF exams, as of January 2026, a valid passport is required
at the time of registration
. It is the candidate’s responsibility to make sure they have a passport valid on the date of the exam. No refund will be given. No exception. The requirement is for all TCF exams. Only a valid passport will be accepted. Other photo IDs DO NOT QUALIFY.
TCF Canada Exam Day Guidelines
Exam Day Guidelines
1. Timely check-In: Candidates must present their valid passports and hardcopy of convocation mail to the exam supervisor. Without valid ID, entry is denied. Late arrivals are not allowed, and there will be no refunds or deferments.
2. ID Verification and Documentation: Post-ID check, candidates sign necessary documents for each test and have an identification photo taken. Your signature on the candidates’ attendance / information sheet
(Feuille d’Anomalies)
will be taken as the final confirmation of the details provided by you. They will then be requested to wait.
3. Entering Exam Room: Candidates will be guided to the exam room, they must wait outside the exam room for both speaking and collective till the exam in charge/invigilator or the speaking test examiner calls upon for entry. Personal items like phones and watches must be stored away.
4. Pre-Test Briefing: The supervisor will give exam related instructions.
5. Exam Format: The exam, including written and oral comprehension and written expression, is computer-based.
6. Exam Conduct: No exits or communication among candidates are allowed, except for medically documented emergencies. Latecomers will be denied entry.
7. Misconduct Consequences: Fraudulent or inappropriate behavior will result in immediate removal and potential future test bans, as decided by France Education International.
How long does it takes to receive my results?
Immediately after completing the computer-based exam,
provisional results for the
Compréhension écrite
(Written Comprehension) section will be displayed on the screen
.
Your
official results for the Listening and Written Comprehension sections
will be sent to you by email approximately
2 to 4 weeks after the examination,
and is valid for 2 years.
Please consider the time period necessary to receive the certificate (about 2 to 4 weeks) if you want to apply for a school or immigration process. You will then receive an email with your test results and official certificate.
Each part of TCF Canada Exam, your proficiency is graded from A1 to C2. You may get a writing A2 and a speaking C2.
TCF Canada Re-evaluation Rules
Important Notice: Suspension of Re-correction Requests
France Éducation international (FEI) informs candidates that requests for re-correction / re-evaluation requests
(i.e.
demande de recorrection
or
consultation de copie
)
of TCF Canada examination papers will be
suspended for examination sessions held from 1 September 2026 onwards
, for an approximate period of one year.
Candidates are advised to take note of this change. During this period, if a candidate has any concern regarding the conditions under which the examination was conducted, they may submit a complaint directly to the examination centre. Such complaints will be considered
only if reported on the day of the examination
. Complaints regarding examination conditions submitted after results have been received will
not be admissible
.
Rules for Re-evaluation of TCF Canada Exams (Applicable to Exams Conducted Before 1 September 2026)
The following rules remain valid for exams conducted before 1 September 2026:
Only the
Expression Orale
and
Expression Écrite
sections are eligible for re-evaluation. The multiple-choice sections (
Compréhension
) are machine-graded and completely final
Re-evaluation Fee:
Rs 6,780 + 18% GST =
Rs 8,000
(effective from 1 April 2025), payable at the time of submitting the re-evaluation form. Re-evaluation forms and fees must be coordinated manually — via email or phone — with AFD’s Front Desk.
Candidates may request a reassessment of their oral and/or written expression test
within one month of receiving their results
. Requests received after this deadline will not be accepted.
Please note that a re-evaluation request may result in a
lower score than the original result
. In such cases, only the results of the new correction will be considered valid. If FEI modifies the results, presenting the original certificate will be considered
fraud
and may be subject to sanctions.
The examination centre will be informed of the decision within
4 to 6 weeks
of the re-evaluation request being accepted.
What format is the TCF exam in? Do I need to know how to use French keyboard?
The TCF exam will be in a digital version and will be taken on a computer. The computer will have an English QWERTY keyboard. The TCF exam software features an integrated virtual on-screen keyboard that lets you click and insert accented letters (
é
,
à
,
ç
, etc.) with your mouse.
While using
the mouse to click the on-screen accent buttons is recommended & advised
, you can also use an alternative method by memorising the
ASCII/ALT codes
. This can save valuable time during the
Expression Écrite
(Writing) section:
Note: For ASCII codes to work, you must hold down the
Alt
key while typing the digits exclusively on the side number pad (not the top row of numbers).
Letter
Accented Character & ASCII (Lowercase) Code
Accented Character & ANSI (Uppercase) Code
A
à = Alt + 133
À = Alt + 0192
á = Alt + 160
Á = Alt + 0193
â = Alt + 131
Â = Alt + 0194
E
é = Alt + 130
É = Alt + 144
è = Alt + 138
È = Alt + 0200
ê = Alt + 136
Ê = Alt + 0201
ë = Alt + 137
Ë = Alt + 0203
I
î = Alt + 140
Î = Alt + 0206
ï = Alt + 139
Ï = Alt + 0207
O
ó = Alt + 162
Ó = Alt + 0211
ô = Alt + 147
Ô = Alt + 0212
U
ù = Alt + 151
Ù = Alt + 0217
û = Alt + 150
Û = Alt + 0219
Æ
æ = Alt + 145
Æ = Alt + 146
C
ç = Alt + 135
Quotation Marks
« = Alt + 174
» = Alt + 175
Complaint Based on Test Conditions or Material Failure during TCF Canada Exam
Candidates have the right to lodge a formal complaint if their test conditions were compromised (e.g., audio equipment failure during the listening section, severe proctor misconduct, or extreme environmental disruption).
Step 1: Contact the exam center immediately.
Candidates should send an official email or letter to the specific test center (i.e. A
FD FrontDesk Support
) where they sat for the exam.
Step 2: Provide proof.
The complaint should clearly state the Candidate Number, exam date, level, and a precise description of the technical or administrative fault.
Step 3: Escalation.
If the local exam center i.e. AFD acknowledges a significant procedural failure, it must report the technical incident or anomaly directly to the headquarters of
France Éducation international
for complain resolution.
Candidates are advised to take note of this change from 1st September 2026. During this period, if a candidate has any concern regarding the conditions under which the examination was conducted, they may submit a complaint directly to the examination centre. Such complaints will be considered
only if reported on the day of the examination
. Complaints regarding examination conditions submitted after results have been received will
not be admissible
.
How can I get my results mailed to me?
Starting in April 2023, TCF results will no no longer send a paper copy. You will be sent a digital version only.
When will I get my exam notification?
All notifications are sent via email 2 to 3 days prior to the exam to the email you used to register. It is not possible to change the day or time of your examination.
If you arrive after the arrival time on your notification, you will not be granted access to the exam and your registration will be forfeited.
How long my results valid for?
Your TCF certification is valid for two years.
How can I practice for Exam?
To help prepare, you can take classes, workshops, or watch and read French Media:
–
TV5 Monde
–
RFI
– Recommendations from
France Education International
TCF Canada Preparation:
https://www.tcfca.com
Will the written portion of Exam will be typed or handwritten?
TCF Canada exam is in digital version and will be taken on a computer, and the written portion will be typed.
The computer will have an English QWERTY keyboard. You will be able to type in accents using the TCF exam software (Virtual Keyboard).
Is the TCF exam in person or online?
The TCF exam is in person. Our site is located at Alliance Française de Delhi, 72, KK Birla Ln, Lodhi Gardens, Lodhi Estate, New Delhi.
How often can candidates retake the TCF Exam?
Candidates may take the TCF Exam several times, allowing a minimum of 20 days between two exam sessions. ( – updated on 2nd June 2026)
Who can access a candidate's TCF Exam result?
TCF Canada results & certificates are personal and confidential. We cannot divulge them to anyone other than the candidate.
What do I need to bring to the exam? Do I need to pack a lunch?
Candidate’s belongings will go in a separate room during the exam, the candidate will only be allowed to bring in the exam room his/ her photo ID document i.e passport & convocation mail printout.
The candidate may not bring a cell phone nor smartwatch into the exam room.
As the exam is now computer based,
no food or drink
is allowed in the exam room
.
The candidates may only access their belongings between the group examination and the preparation for the spoken exam, if they have a wait time between the two.
Candidates may either bring their lunch, eat at AFD Cafe or any eateries outside AFD.
© 2026 Alliance Française de Delhi. Crafted & Maintained by AFD IT Team